✳️FEATURES OF JAVA: Lets understand the features and some buzzwords of java for a clear understanding of further topics!

⏩Simple:
Java is simple programming language because of the following factors.
Java programming language eliminates a complex concept called pointers hence we are able to develop the 
application with less time and it will take less execution time because of magic of Byte code.

🌟Byte Code: Byte code is set of optimized instructions generated during compilation phase by the java 
compiler and nature of byte code is so powerful than ordinary pointer code.

⏩Java programming environment contains inbuilt garbage collector program.
Garbage Collector: Is a system background java program which is running along with our regular java program 
for collecting un-used/un-reference memory space and it improves the performance if java application.

⏩Platform Independent: The language/technology related application are said to platformindependent if and 
only if those application run on every operating systems without considering their providers /vendors.

⏩Architecture Neutral: Java’s byte code is not machine dependent. It can run on any machine
with any processor and any operating system.

⏩Portable: Java does not have implemented-dependent aspects. So the results will be same on
all machine, portable means yielding same results on different machines.

⏩Multithreading: The basic aim of multithreading is to achieve the concurrent execution which means it can
have multiple users at the same time. A flow of control in java is known as thread.

⏩Networked: To share the data between multiple machines which are located either in same
network or in different network, Intranet application will be developed by J2SE with network
programming concept.

⏩Distributed: According to real world project, java project are classified into 2 types
i. Centralized Application.
ii. Distributed Application.
➡️Centralized application: Centralized application are those which runs in the context of
single server and their result can be accessible across the globe and they are operated by
authorized people only. (Banking , insurance ...)
➡️Distributed application: which runs in the context of multiple servers and result are
accessible across the globe and they are operated by both authorized and unauthorized
user.

⏩High Performance: Java is one of the high performance programming language
because of the following factors
i. Automatic memory management due to inbuilt garbage collector.
ii. Java is free from pointers.
iii. Due to JIT which enhances the speed of the execution.
JIT: JIT(Just in time compiler) is a program to speed up the interpretation phase by reading the entire section 
of byte code.

⏩Robust:java programs will not crash because of its exception handling and its memory
management features.

⏩Secure: Security is one of the principal in IT world for preventing / protecting  the unauthorized
modification on confidential data. The language like Java and .Net are treated has high secured
programming language because their API contains readily available security programs in apackage called javaX.security.*;

⏩Dynamic: In any programming language, if we write a program and that program accepts input then the input of 
program is stored in the main memory by allocating sufficient amount of memory space.
In any programming language memory allocation can be done in 2 ways
i. Static Memory Allocation.
ii. Dynamic Memory Allocation.
i) Static Memory Allocation is one in which memory will be allocated for the impact of the program at compile time because of 
static Memory allocation we get the following drawbacks:
a. Waste of memory space.
b. Loss of Data.
c. Overlapping of Existing Data.
ii) Dynamic Memory Allocation is one in which memory will be allocated for the input of the program at run time .
✅Java follows only dynamic memory allocation but not static memory allocation.
✅To allocate the memory space dynamically is java programming we use operator called new.

