A brief introduction to Java! Lets DIVE-IN!

⏩Instruction: Asking computer to do something is called Instruction.
⏩Language: A tool used for Communication, Instruction and Information 
exchange.
⏩Programming Language: Language or medium which is used to 
instruct a computer to perform a specific task is known as Programming 
Language. 

We have different levels of Programming language,
1) Low level or Machine level language
2) Assembly level language
3) High level language
Lets understand all the different levels in detail..

✅ Low level language: A language having 2 digits 0’s and 1’s is called Binary 
Language
A language which machine can easily understand and process is known as low 
level language.
Example: Binary language(0’s and 1’s)

💥NOTE: It is difficult for a programmer to write instructions in binary language. 
Hence programmer never uses a low level language for developing an 
application.

🌟A computer can understand all the characters(A-Z,a-z,0-9 and all special 
characters) using a standard code called ASCII(American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange).Every character will have it’s own equivalent binary 
representation.

✅Assembly level language: It is easily understood by microprocessors and micro 
controllers. In this there are some predefined words which is converted into low 
level language with the help of software called Assembler.Assembler is a 
translater.
Example for predefined words: ADD,SUB,MUL,DIV, etc….

✅High level language: A language which is programmer friendly is known as High 
Level Language.It is very easy for a programmer to learn,understand and write 
instructions.HLL is generally used to build application software.
Example: Java,C++,C#, Python, Ruby, Pearl,etc….

🌟Computer doesn’t understand high level programming language so we use a 
software called as Compiler/Interpreter to convert high level language into 
machine understandable language.

🌟Every high level language will have it’s own compiler/interpreter. Example:-C 
compiler,Java Compiler etc…

Lets walk through some basic terminologies:

➡️Platform: A device used for developing software. Platform includes 
both Hardware architecture and software architecture.
➡️ Platform Dependent: A software developed on one platform and 
executed on the same platform is known as Platform Dependent.
Example:- C, C++, etc…. 
➡️Platform Independent: A software developed on one platform and 
executed on any platform is known as Platform Independent.
Example:- Java ,C ,C++,Ruby, Pearl, Python, PHP etc…
➡️Java Source File: A file created by a programmer that consists of 
instructions written in Java language is known as Java source file. A java 
source file should always have an extension FileName.java
➡️ Byte Code: It is an intermediate language generated by a Java Compiler.It
is only understandable by JRE.
➡️ Class File: The file generated by a java compiler is known as Class File. 
Class file consists of instructions in bytecode. The extension of class file is 
FileName.class
