
⏩DATATYPES
• Datatypes are used to create variables of specific type.
• In java datatypes are classified into two types.
1. Primitive datatypes
2. Non-primitive datatypes
➡️PRIMITIVE DATA TYPE :
The data type which is used to create a variable to store primitive value such as numbers, characters, boolean is known as primitive data type.

💥NOTE : 
°All primitive data types are keyword in java.
°The number data type in increasing order of the capacity.
°byte < short < int < long < float < double

➡️NON PRIMITIVE DATA TYPE :
The data type which is used to create a non primitive variable to store the reference is known as non primitive data type.

💥NOTE : Every class name in java is non a primitive dataype.

⏩VARIABLES :
Variable is a container which is used to store a single value. We have two 
types of variables, they are
● Primitive variable.
● Non-Primitive variable.

➡️PRIMITIVE VARIABLE :
• The variable which is used to store a primitive value such as numbers, character, boolean is known as primitive variable.
• We can create primitive variable with the help of primitive data type.
Syntax to create primitive variable :
datatype identifier1 , identifier2 , … ;
primitive datatype identifier1 , identifier2, … ;
Example : int a ; … ---> primitive variable of int type.
boolean b ; --->primitive variable of boolean type.

➡️NON PRIMITIVE VARIABLE :
• The variable which is used to store a reference is known as Non primitive variable.
• It is also known as reference variable.
Syntax to create a non primitive variable :
Non Primitive datatype identifier1 , identifier2 , … ;
EXAMPLE :
String s = new String();

⏩SCOPE OF A VARIABLE :
• The visibility of a variable is known as scope of a variable.
• Based on scope of a variable we can categorize variable in three types.
1. Local variable.
2. Static variable.
3. Non static variable (Instance).

✅LOCAL VARIABLE :
The variable declared inside a method block or any other block except class block is 
known as local variable.
CHARACTERISTICS OF LOCAL VARIABLE :
● We can’t use local variables without initialization, if we try to use local variable without initialization then we will get compile time error.
● Local variables will not be initialized with default values.
● The scope of the local variable is nested inside the block wherever it is declared, hence it can’t be used outside the block.

💠TYPE CASTING :
The process of converting one type of data into another type is known as 
Type casting.
There are two types of type casting :
1) PRIMITIVE TYPE CASTING
1) Widening ( Implicit )
2) Narrowing ( Explicit )
2) NON PRIMITIVE TYPECASTING
1) Upcasting ( Implicit )
2) Downcasting ( Explicit )

✳️PRIMITIVE TYPE CASTING :
The process of converting one primitive value into another primitive value is known as primitive type casting
✳ WIDENING :
● The process of converting smaller range of primitive data type into larger range of primitive data type is called widening.
● In widening process there is no data loss.
● Since there is no data loss, compiler can implicitly do widening hence it is 
also known as auto widening.
✳ NARROWING :
● The process of converting larger range of primitive data type into smaller range of primitive data type is known as Narrowing. 
● In narrowing process there is a possibility of data loss.
● Since there is a possibility of data loss, compiler does not do narrowing implicitly .
● It can be done explicitly by the programmer with the help of type cast operator.

✳️TYPECAST OPERATOR :
● It is a unary operator(Only one operand)
● Type cast operator is used to explicitly convert one datatype into another data type.
